### 1.
How long is the shortest possible Java program?

#### 解答
enum A {}
class B {}

### 2.
What is the advantage of organizing a compiler into a sequence of passes?

#### 解答


### 3.
Describe in words the set {b, c}*.

#### 解答


### 4.
What does the set { }* contain?

#### 解答
{}*={λ}

### 5.
Is it true that x* = {x}* for any string x?

#### 解答
Yes.

### 6.
Under what circumstances are P and ~P disjoint?

#### 解答


### 7.
What does P | Q = P imply?

#### 解答
Q⊆P

### 8.
What does P  Q = P imply?

#### 解答
P⊆Q

### 9.
If P = {b} and Q = {bb, c}, then what does P*  Q* equal?

#### 解答
P*Q*={bb}*

### 10.
If A = {λ, b}, how many distinct strings are in AA? List them.

#### 解答
{λ,b,bb}

### 11.
Is x* always an infinite set? If not, give an example for which it is not infinite.

#### 解答
{}*={λ}

### 12.
Does b*c* = {b, c}*? Justify your answer.

#### 解答
b*c*⊆{b,c}*  例如c*b*,b*c*b*等等

### 13.
Represent the set |{λ}|bbbc(bbbc)* with a regular expression that does not use the | operator.

#### 解答
(bbbc)*

### 14.
Using exponent notation, represent the set b*c*b*.

#### 解答
{b<sup>i</sup>c<sup>j</sup>b<sup>k</sup>:i>=0,j>=0,k>=0}

### 15.
Write a regular expression for the set of all strings over the alphabet {b, c} containing exactly one b.

#### 解答
c*bc*

### 16.
Write a regular expression for the set of all strings over the alphabet {b, c} containing at least one b.

#### 解答
(c*bb*c*)*
### 17.
Write an expression using exponent notation for the set (b<sup>i</sup>c<sup>i</sup>d<sup>j</sup>: i ≥ 0, j ≥ 0 } {b<sup>p</sup>c<sup>q</sup>d<sup>q</sup>: p ≥ 0 and q ≥ 0} without using the  operator.

#### 解答
{b<sup>i</sup>c<sup>i</sup>d<sup>i</sup>: i ≥ 0}
### 18.
Is (b*c*)* = {b, c}*? If not, provide a counterexample.

#### 解答

### 19.
List all the strings in {b, cc}* that are of length 3.

#### 解答
{bbb,bcc,ccb}

### 20.
Does (b*|b*ccc)* = {b, ccc}*? Justify your answer.

#### 解答

### 21.
Is concatenation distributive over a union. That is, for all sets of strings A, B, C, does A(B | C) = AB | AC?

#### 解答


### 22.
Is the star operation distributive over a union. That is, for all sets of strings A, B, does (A|B)* = A*|B*?

#### 解答

### 23.
Suppose X, A, and B are sets of strings, λ  B, and X= A|XB. What can be concluded about X? Hint: does X contain AB?

#### 解答

### 24.
Does xA always equal {x}A, where x is a string and A is a set of strings?

#### 解答

### 25.
The parser in a compiler does not need the tokens corresponding to white space and comments. Yet, syntax errors may occur if white space and comments are removed from the source program. Explain this apparent contradiction.

#### 解答

### 26.
Write a regular expression that defines the same language as b*c*∩c*d*.

#### 解答
c*
### 27.
Write a regular expression that defines the same language as {b, cc}*∩c*.

#### 解答
{cc}*
### 28.
Write a regular expression that defines the same language as (bb)*∩(bbb)*.

#### 解答
(bbbbbb)*

### 29.
Write a regular expression for the set of all strings over the alphabet {b, c} containing an even number of b’s.

#### 解答


### 30.
Write a nonextended regular expression that defines the same language as (~b)*, where the universe is (b | c | d)*.

#### 解答

### 31.
Write a nonextended regular expression that defines the same language as ~({b, c}*), where the universe is (b | c | d)*.

#### 解答

### 32.
Prove that any finite language is regular.

#### 解答

### 33.
Describe in English the strings in (bb | cc|((bc | cb)(bb | cc)*(bc | cb)))*.

#### 解答

### 34.
Is (((b))) a regular expression over the alphabet {b, c}?

#### 解答

### 35.
Is () a regular expression over the alphabet {b, c}?

#### 解答

### 36.
Give three regular expressions that define the empty set.

#### 解答

### 37.
Suppose the alphabet for regular expressions consists of the symbols b, c, the backslash, the vertical bar, the single quote, and the double quote. Give an unambiguous regular expression that specifies the set consisting of b, c, the backslash, the vertical bar, the single quote, and the double quote.

#### 解答

### 38.
Convert (b | c?)+ to an equivalent nonextended regular expression.

#### 解答

### 39.
Show that extended regular expressions are not more powerful than regular expressions. That is, show that any language that can be defined by an extended regular expression can also be defined by a nonextended regular expression.

#### 解答
