### 1.
Write a grammar that generates the language {}.

#### 解答

### 2.
Write a grammar that generates the language {λ}.

#### 解答

### 3.
Write a grammar that generates bbb* cc* that uses directly left recursive productions.

#### 解答

### 4.
Write a regular grammar that generates bbb* c*.

#### 解答

### 5.
Write a regular grammar that generates b* | c* | d*.

#### 解答

### 6.
Write a grammar that generates the language consisting of all strings of b’s in which successive b’s are separated by at least one comma. Successive commas are allowed. For example, b, b,, b, b, b.

#### 解答

### 7.
Write a regular grammar equivalent to

1. S → Sb

2. S → c

3. S → d

4. S → e

#### 解答

### 8.
Write a regular grammar equivalent to

1. S → bcdS

2. S → cbaS

3. S → bbA

4. A → bbc

#### 解答

### 9.
Write a grammar that generates a list in which each element is either b, c, or d, and in which successive elements are separated by

exactly one comma. Your grammar should also generate the null string. Sample strings:

λ

b

b, b, b, c, d, b

#### 解答

### 10.
Write a grammar that generates {b2ici: i ≥ 0}.

#### 解答

### 11.
Given arbitrary grammars G1 and G2, show how to construct grammars G3 and G4 such that L(G3) = L(G1)|L(G2) and L(G4) = L(G1)L(G2).

#### 解答

### 12.
Describe the language generated by

1. S → SS

2. S → bSc

3. S → cSb

4. S → λ

#### 解答

### 13.
Write a regular grammar that generates (bcd)* eee.

#### 解答

### 14.
Write a right linear grammar that generates (bcd)*eee.

#### 解答

### 15.
Prove that a finite language is always regular.

#### 解答

### 16.
Convert the following grammar to a right linear grammar:

1. S → Sbcd

2. S → fg

#### 解答

### 17.
Write a grammar that generates {bici+jdj: i ≥ 1, j ≥ 2}.

#### 解答

### 18.
Describe the language generated by

1. S → bB

2. B → cC

3. C → dS

4. C → d

#### 解答

### 19.
How many distinct derivations of bcde are possible using

1. S → BCDE

2. B → b

3. C → c

4. D → d

5. E → e

#### 解答

### 20.
Write a grammar that generates all properly nested parenthesized strings. Some examples of strings in the language are

()

() () ()

( () () )

( ( () )) () () ( () () )

#### 解答

### 21.
Write a grammar that generates {bicj: i > 2, j ≥ 3}.

#### 解答

### 22.
How many times (in terms of i, j, and k) and in what order must the productions below be used to generate the string bicjdk?

1. S → bSd

2. S → bA

3. A → bAc

4. A → c

#### 解答

### 23.
Write a grammar that generates (bc*)+.

#### 解答

### 24.
Prove that any grammar that generates the language {bici: i ≥ 0} cannot contain the production S → bS, where S is the start symbol.

#### 解答

### 25.
Write a regular grammar that generates {bici: i ≤ 4} by counting.

#### 解答

### 26.
Write a regular grammar equivalent to G2.36.

#### 解答

### 27.
Let L denote the language defined by the following grammar:

1. S → bcS

2. S → d

      Modify this grammar so that it generates the language L | {λ}.

#### 解答

### 28.
Give a summary of the proof that the language PAIRED in Section 2.7 is not regular (see Section 17.12).

#### 解答

### 29.
Give a regular expression for the language defined by G2.30 to which S → λ has been added.

#### 解答

### 30.
Give a summary of the proof that the language TRIPLED in Section 2.7 is not context-free (see Section 4.10).

#### 解答

### 31.
Prove that the language consisting of arbitrarily long nonrepeating lists is not context-free.

#### 解答

### 32.
Convert the following grammar to a regular grammar:

1. S → bcdeS

2. S → edcb

#### 解答

### 33.
If you make no assumptions about the terminal alphabet for the grammar below, can you determine how many strings are in the language it generates?

S → b | c

If you know the terminal alphabet is {b, c}, how many strings are in the language?

#### 解答

### 34.
Give a regular expression that defines the same language as the following grammar:

1. b → “b” b

2. b → “b”

#### 解答

### 35.
Is production 1 in G2.32 necessary?
