# 第11章 汇编语言
### 1.
Translate to an assembly language program:
b = 1;  
c = 2;  
e = 3;  
d = b - c;  
e = e*e/d;  
println (b);  
println (c);  
println (d);  
println (e);  
Do not optimize. For example, do not initialize b, c, and e to 1, 2, and 3, respectively, in their dw statements. Instead, initialize them to 0 in their dw statements. Place your program in a file named p1101.a. Assemble and run with
a p1101.a  
e p1101/c  

#### 解答
pc b   
pc 1   
stav   
p b   
dout    
pc '\n'   
aout   
   
pc c   
pc 2   
stav   
p c   
dout   
pc '\n'   
aout   
   
pc e   
pc 3   
stav   
   
pc d   
p b   
p c   
sub   
stav   
p d   
dout   
pc '\n'   
aout    
   
pc e   
p e   
p e   
mult   
p d   
div   
dout   
pc '\n'   
aout   
halt   
b:dw 0   
c:dw 0   
e:dw 0   
d:dw 0   

### 2.
Assemble and run the following program. What happens?   
start:	pc	5   
dout	   
ja	start   
The ja instruction is the “jump always” instruction.   
   
#### 解答   
一直循环输出5。   

### 3.
Translate the following statements to assembly language. Do not optimize. For example, for the first statement, you should provide assembly code that performs all the specified additions. Specifically, after pushing the address of x, push the operands, 1, 2, …, 10. Then perform the specified additions, followed by a stav instruction. Use the pc instruction to push each constant.
x = (1 + (2 + (3 + (4 + (5 + (6 + (7 + (8 + (9 + 10)))))))));   
print (“x = “);   
println (x);   
Place your program in a file name p1103.a. Assemble and run with   
a p1103.a   
e p1103/c   
Change your program so that it pushes the constants with the pwc instruction instead of the pc instruction. Assemble and run. Compare the two log file reports. Which version is better? Why?

#### 解答
pc x   
pc 1   
pc 2   
pc 3   
pc 4   
pc 5   
pc 6   
pc 7   
pc 8   
pc 9   
pc 10   
add   
add   
add   
add   
add   
add   
add   
add   
add   
stav   
pc @L0   
sout   
^@L0:dw "x = "   
p x   
dout   
pc '\n'   
aout   
halt   
x:dw 0   
第一个版本好。pwc是push word constant,常量会占一个字，2byte;而pc是push constant，常量占1byte，第一个版本可执行程序的大小(Machine code size)和执行时间(Execution time)都要比第二个版本好。

### 4.
Translate the following statements to assembly language. Do not optimize. For example, for the first statement, you should provide assembly code that performs all the specified additions. Specifically, after pushing the address of x, push 1 and 2, then add. Then push 3 and add. Continue in this fashion until all ten numbers have been added. Use the pwc instruction to push the constants.
x = 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 + 6 + 7 + 8 + 9 + 10;   
print (“x = “);   
println (x);   
Place your program in a file name p1104.a. Assemble and run with
a p1104.a   
e p1104/c   
   
#### 解答   
pc x   
pc 1   
pc 2   
add   
pc 3   
add   
pc 4   
add   
pc 5   
add   
pc 6   
add   
pc 7   
add   
pc 8   
add   
pc 9   
add   
pc 10   
add   
stav   
pc @L0   
sout   
^@L0:dw "x = "   
p x   
dout   
pc '\n'   
aout   
halt   
x:dw 0   

### 5.
Compare the efficiencies of the assembly language programs for problems 3 and 4. Are they different?

#### 解答
3和4汇编程序执行效率相同，只是4比3要节省栈空间。

### 6.
Assemble and run the following program. What happens? Why?  
dout  
halt  

#### 解答
  LOC   MACHINE      ASSEMBLY   
hex*dec  CODE          CODE   
   
0  *0    FFFD  dout   
1  *1    FFFF  halt   
2  *2    ========= end of p1105.a ==========================   
sp寄存器初始化为0，dout用带符号的十进制数来显示mem[sp++]的内容，也就是mem[0]的内容，为FFFD，也就是十进制的-3。  

### 7.
Which bits of the sp register are used to determine where in memory an item is 
pushed? All 16 bits?

#### 解答
sp地址寄存器的最右边12位。

### 8.
The stack pointer initially contains 0. What is the address of the memory location that receives the first value pushed? Hint: the stack pointer is decremented by 1 before each push operation.

#### 解答
第一个压入栈的主存位置地址是FFF。

### 9.
Without using the mult instructions, write the most efficient assembly language sequence you can that multiplies 23 by 48 and displays the result. Display the result with no newline after the result and with no labels. Assemble and run with
a p1109.a
e p1109/c
Hint: You may want to use the dupe instruction. It duplicates the top of the stack. For example, if 5 is on top of the stack and you execute dupe, then an additional 5 is pushed onto the stack.

#### 解答
pc 23   
dupe   
add ;23*2   
dupe   
add ;23*2*2   
dupe   
add ;23*2*2*2   
dupe   
add ;23*2*2*2*2=23*16   
dupe   
dupe   
add ;23*16+23*16   
add ;23*16+23*16+23*16   
dout   
halt   

### 10.
Which instruction below is better? Why?   
pc	5
or	   
P	@5   
where @5 is defined with   
@5:	dw	5   
Which instruction below is better? Why?   
pwc	5   
or	   
P	@5   
where @5 is defined shown above.   
   
#### 解答   
   
   
### 11.
 Write an assembly language program that prompts the user for two integers, adds the two integers, and displays the sum. Your program should produce output that looks exactly like that in the sample session below:
Enter integer    
1    
Enter integer    
2    
Sum = 3    
After outputting the sum, your program should position the cursor at the beginning of the line that follows the sum. Place your program in a file name p1111.a. Assemble and run with
a p1111.a    
e p1111/c    
#### 解答    
pc @L0    
sout    
pc '\n'    
aout    
pc x    
din    
stav    
    
pc @L0    
sout    
pc '\n'    
aout    
pc y    
din    
stav    
    
p x    
p y    
add    
pc @L1    
sout    
dout    
pc '\n'    
aout    
    
halt    
@L0: dw "Enter integer"   
@L1: dw "Sum = "   
x: dw 0   
y: dw 0   

### 12. 
Suppose you delete the entry directive in the program in Section 11.14. What happens when the program is executed?

#### 解答

